EXTRACT EMBEDDED DATA FROM A VIDEO USING A SIMPLE TEXT EDITOR

Steganography and Steganalysis do not always require specialized tools like steghide.

If a non-text file can be modified with a simple text editor, and it still works as it should, then it can be used to hide data.

Notepad is a simple editor to modify text files on a Windows machine and you will use it for steganalysis.

You will need to open the VideoAnalysis directory as follows, where it is also shown in the cheat sheet.


On the VM's desktop, double-click the yellow folder called Steganalysis.


Once File Explorer is opened, double-click Steganalysisv2 and finally double-click the VideoAnalysis directory.

Since a video file is not a text file, you will need some extra steps to open a video file with Notepad.



Step 1: Open with Another App

Right-click the file named video.mp4
Click Open with
Then, near the bottom, click Choose another app
Step 2: Select Notepad

Click Notepad and click Just once
The video.mp4 file should now be opened in Notepad.

During normal investigations, you would not know for what you are looking; you would scroll through the whole file looking for something that does not belong there.

To demonstrate that a video can indeed contain hidden data, search for the word username. Make sure your mouse is over the Notepad window before searching!

To search, hold the Ctrl key and hit the letter f  to open a search box.

Type the word username and press enter to start the search. Once you find one, look below it to answer the questions.

What is the admin password hidden in the video file?
adminabc123


APPLY STEGANALYSIS TO A SECOND VIDEO FILE 

Open the wind surf-yatch.mp4 file also using Notepad.

With specialized files like video files, it is normal that text is added near the end of a file to give some details about the video.

Adding hidden data at that location is less likely to corrupt the video file.

The purpose of some hidden data may not be immediately obvious. But they can provide clues to keep in mind.



With this file, the words username and password were not added but other information was added.

What is a suspicious title in this file?
MASTERCARD
