GET STARTED WITH THE STEGANALYSIS TOOL STEGHIDE

The steghide tool is run from the command line, also called the Terminal in Linux.
If this is your first time hearing about a command line, please practice with it by going through the examples in the short cheat sheet provided under the Resources tab next to Virtual Machines tab.
Let's get started with steganalysis.

You work as a cyber security analyst for the company Weather4U that produces satellite images for weather stations. The security system has detected a large number of images being downloaded. Although this is normal, it is not normal that files are now slightly different than before. Steganography is suspected.

You are asked to examine some files with the steganalysis tool called steghide.

Log in the Kali virtual machine using the credentials given in the Introduction.


As shown in the cheat sheet, open a Terminal window to get access to the command line prompt, which is shown here: 

administrator㉿kali2023)-[~]

It is always good to look at the help menus of a tool or a command. Run this command and look at the examples of how to use the tool near the end.

steghide --help


Notice in the --help menu that two words are emphasized:

embed
extract
To embed data in a file means to insert text in a file, that is, hide it in the file.

To extract data from a file is the opposite: pull out the hidden data.

Again in the --help menu, notice the word options:

you add options to the command to give it extra information
for example, -sf is an option.
Finally, if you hide data in an image file, that is, embed the data, the image file is referred to as a cover-file.

When you extract the data, the image file is referred to as a stego file.

To embed data in a file, called a cover-file, which option do we use?
cf

To extract data from a file, called a stego file, which option do we use?
sf


EXTRACT EMBEDDED (HIDDEN) DATA FROM AN IMAGE WITH STEGHIDE


You are now ready for your first steganalysis task.

Change directory to the ImageAnalysis directory using the cd command. For example, run:



cd /home/administrator/Desktop/Steganalysis/Steganalysisv2/ImageAnalysis

List and look at the files in this directory by running the ls command:


ls

The first step is to determine if a file potentially contains embedded data. Use info to examine the following file.

steghide info StegoSplash.jpg


Then:

Type y when it asks you get information.
Hit the enter key when it asks Enter passphrase.
Read the information it provides.

It mentions an embedded file; this is the name of the file that initially held the secret data.

It then gives the size of the secret data.

Notice that encrypted and compressed (zipped) are no. You may have heard of these terms. We will not focus on encryption and compression in this course; however, it is good to know that steganography, encryption and compression are not the same thing. They simply can be combined to increase security.

Enough explanations! Let's extract our hidden data.

Run:

steghide extract -sf StegoSplash.jpg -xf hidden.txt

-sf   is the option giving the stego file
-xf   is the option for the new file for the secret data

Now view the contents of the file using the cat command you learned in the cheat sheet.

cat hidden.txt
What are the first four characters of the hidden data?

AMEX

APPLY STEGANALYSIS ON THE SECOND FILE


Verify if the file vecteezydotcom1.jpg has hidden data; if so, extract it.

It is important to realize that extracting hidden data does not remove it from the image!!

Note: To avoid over-writing existing files, use a different file name for the -xf option.

What is the name of the file that was used to initially hold the hidden data?
secretrecipe.txt

What is the last word in the hidden data?
Vanilla


EMBED SOME SECRET DATA IN AN IMAGE FILE


Previously, you detected (extracted) secret data: that is, you did steganalysis.

Hiding (embedding) data is doing steganography itself.

Change directory to the one called:

UnmodifiedImage

It contains one image called:  vecteezydotcom3.jpg.

CREATE SECRET DATA

Create secret data and save it to a file, also shown in the cheat sheet.

Run:

echo 'Phone number 555-1234' > mysecret.txt

List the files in the directory to confirm your file exists using the ls command.


Verify its content using the cat command. Always test your work, never assume something was successful.

USE STEGHIDE

Review the examples at the bottom of the --help menu to build your steghide command to embed a file.

Remember that cover-file refers to the original file in which you hide the data. Use image vecteezydotcom3.jpg.

Also remember that the mysecret.txt file is the one that is being embedded.

Now run the command you have built above.

It asks you for a passphrase.


ADD A PASSPHRASE

With embedding, you can add a passphrase, for example, abc123, to add an extra security layer. Previously, there was no passphrase and you simply hit the enter key to proceed.

You will need to type the passphrase twice.

Now test that the above worked by extracting your secret data into a different file name and then use cat to read it.

Congratulations! You have created your first stego file.

What are the first two words of your command?

steghide embed

Did steghide compress (zip) your file?

yes

